- you are the first ever a person with a
mohawk on this podcast haha yeah
graduation right is that accurate
just say yes definitely the first with a
purple and blue also full rainbow man
bro oh yeah that's right all the way
down the back very very nice absolute
very nice now first of all I love you
fucking handle world's strongest gay
that's me yeah that's hilarious
this is there in that community as their
acceptance is there open is it just
about like they don't give a fuck just
long as you're real colander yeah oh
yeah yeah no it's um yeah when I came
out it was super cool nobody really gave
me any shit that's the best part about
strongman you know I know you had Robbo
burst in here yeah not too long ago and
he'll mention yeah he'll he's something
but you know he mentioned just like the
community of strong men's so it's
awesome because like we all realize what
we have to do to get to this level of
sport may lend me a little bit of you
know sick and twisted in the head to
look at a truck and get excited to pull
it so yeah when I came out like nobody
really gave a shit they were just like
are as long as you can still lift
weights we don't care yeah that's it
Mears the comedy community in that way
for sure like stand-up comedy community
nobody gives a shit no as long as you're
funny and you're doing your job like
that's all that really matters and we
know some that are in the closet and
we're like come on man just no one cares
come out no no one gives a shit he'll
probably be funnier right it's the more
subject matter be more you know not
holding on to as much it's easier Hawk
like you know I came out just like you
know the you know weight off my
shoulders was uh was unbelievable what
how long ago was this that was 2014 so I
was 22 years old okay so I was a late
bloomer in the gay world was it like
when you were in high school and like
what first of all when when do you know
you know I don't know that I have like I
don't remember like I never had like an
aha moment per se for me it was going
through high school like I was involved
in a bunch of stuff you know was a
cheerleader actually also played
football was doing the weightlifting
thing
was class president so had my hands in a
bunch of different pots college super
into everything as well and really just
focused on school and actually dated a
girl for like a year and a half in
college in college yeah did you ever
date a boy no so but did you let go damn
I wish he was a boy she's cool but it
was yeah pretty much you know it was uh
it was it was more like a friendship
than a relationship I guess I don't know
you know like we were cool and
everything and everything's going well
but like nothing else was really going
on when you came out was she like AHA
that was the reason I broke up with her
oh you came out because you know
meanwhile you know I'm dating this girl
but I'm watching gay porn when she's not
around oh my god this isn't right
was something else going on here so did
you like was it gay porn like finding
gay porn you're like that's what I like
pretty much really yeah gay porn has
thought of very differently than
straight porn because like straight porn
here's the rub in the straight community
you look at straight point you're like
especially someone like me who has
daughter so you know if somebody
probably did something awful to those
girls
when they were young like that's like
nine out of ten times yeah and that's
why they turned to porn but when you see
gay points like yeah a couple dudes
would like to fuck like Dan Savage on
and you know we're talking about gay
porn he's like it's like they don't
think of it the same way no not at all
yeah yes so I I ended up breaking up
with that girl and I told her I was like
yeah like I think I'm gay and I need to
like figure this shit out you know I'm
22 I want at least enjoy my 20s you know
trying to figure out a fight if I like
dudes or not was she like damn I turned
Rob gay she was not very nice about it
yeah freaked out
yeah it didn't it went downhill pretty
quickly oh really
so oh yeah like we were living together
at the time because we're in college too
like I kind of living together and then
like I got kicked out and
was like living in my car for a little
while so it was yeah kind of a shit show
Wow
she kicked you out yeah did you stay in
contact with her no not even a little
bit Wow no yeah then like you know like
six months later she's like blowing up
my phone saying I gave her chlamydia I
was like gods does not only six-month
not on me that's it's been longer than
that too since we were doing anything so
oh that's hilarious yeah I don't think
you keep chlamydia and your system
warming right when we don't get it I
would yeah I think so I've dodged that
bullet luckily but that seems like one
that I think you just get it and then
yeah bad yeah it doesn't seem too
pleasant yeah I mean I don't think it
and I wasn't to because like all those
like calls and everything we're coming
through when I was with my now husband
Joey so like we were dating at that time
and now my ex-girlfriend is blown into
my phone sad I gave her the clap but was
he laughing at first years like what the
fuck is going on cuz like we literally
had been dating for two months uh
so it was like super new so he's like
what the fuck did I get myself into
right because you were a noob to the
whole time yeah
so that's crazy so you you become you
decide okay I got a deal with reality
I'm gay you meet that one guy yeah and
then you're still with them still there
yeah with him we just got married this
past March a year that's kind of crazy
yeah well you didn't even play the field
no no I got real you know it's funny
like I joke about this all the time cuz
like we met in like the typical
millennial gay way on Grindr and you
know I was I wasn't even out actually
before we met so like on Grindr I was
like that shirtless torso pic because I
was still you know moves yeah yeah and
she was no they're not that good but he
thought so we like you know saw me pop
up in the aerials like oh who's this
bitch messaged me and I thought he was
catfishing me because I thought he was
way too hot for me thought he was out of
my league so I kind of just like got
really lucky with the first guy that
came my way
that's um that's gotta be weird for her
right yeah like imagine being a girl
even with a guy any like man something's
wrong with our relationship I mean it's
literally like the most like snake it's
there's no more other like it's me it's
you it's not you it's me right no that
is the it's yeah you know I don't think
there's anywhere to go you know higher
than that like well unless you want to
go pray the gay away yeah that doesn't
work no but is it that is like a way
that some people try to fix it yeah
particularly like the religious folks
yeah
it is hilarious man I think it's freakin
funny I mean you know like and I I get
shit a lot of I mean obviously like with
an Instagram handle world's strongest
gay I get more shit on a daily basis on
social media than I can even count and
most of its from like religious people
really oh yeah like they're sending me
like Bible verses or telling me like I
need to convert to Christianity and by
the way they're probably jerking off
while they're doing probably thinking
about you it's okay and delicious my
go-to response is you know hey man I
don't read fiction so doing that but I
just always think it's funny because you
know they're like you know gay obviously
I'm very open with my sexuality on
social media and you know world
Strongest Man has been super supportive
of it
they had role Strongest Man and ginger
in Pride Month this year and did a whole
like little expose about me which was
awesome and the comments on the world
Strongest Man they're like you're
pushing the gay agenda like all this
bullshit and I'm like listen man like
the only agenda we're pushing is like I
just want to be treated like everybody
else and like get the same shit that you
do you know I've never once like tried
to make someone gay you know like
meanwhile Christians are in my DM saying
like you need to convert I'm not Kay you
need to suck a dick that's the gay
agenda is a hilarious phrase there's an
agenda I still don't even know what it
is so whoever's listening if you could
like hit me up and let me know I'd love
to learn about it yeah you need to get
in a tighter knit Club I guess I do
khn yes the rainbow Mohawk doesn't make
me that gay hilarious thing that like
you get it it's not like you're trying
to get someone to be a Mormon no you're
the gay or not gay
exactly yeah why did it but why does
someone think that's like that's the
weirdest kind of homophobia to me like I
had a bit in one of my specials in the
past what like there's two types of
people that are afraid of gay marriage
is people that are really dumb or
they're secretly worried that dicks are
delicious and I share that all the time
on my social media just I think it's
amazing but that's what it is like
worried about the gay agenda like
they're gonna come get me no that's what
it's like it's like they're afraid it's
unbelievable I think it's hysterical
Erica but well I was real lucky when I
was a kid I was exposed to gay people
real young when I was a seven years old
we moved to San Francisco oh yeah yeah
70s it was gay as fuck and so I was
around them all the time like my
next-door neighbor was this gay couple
my aunt used to go next door and they
would get they would get naked smoke pot
and play bongos together sick yeah was
pretty crazy so for me that was normal
life was just like gay I was around gay
people I didn't even hear the term
faggot until I was 11 and we moved to
Florida
I remember hearing that when I was like
oh wow like I had a my friend
his name was candy Candido he's a Cuban
kid and his dad was real mad cuz gay
people getting married he's reading this
new paper I believe the shitty it was
his new paper down he was a grown man I
remember being 11 goes why is he give a
shit like how weird literally doesn't
affect him at all ah but he was so upset
yeah but it says but but it was
important for me to see because I didn't
know people like that so to be around my
friend's dad and see him freak out I was
like wow what a weird thing to waste
your time thinking about for sure I mean
that's and you were super lucky to have
that kind of a brain yeah I'll see that
ugly part of you know the world cuz I
mean the thing is with me no I'm
fortunate enough for like not many
people like talk shit to me in person
right
you know like I'm an average sized
strong man like I'm not really that big
of a dude what's the average size drama
you like 300
and I'm the smallest guy that can I miss
how much do you weigh I'm like 285 right
yeah that's not average size bro
well I mean I just competed this weekend
against Brian Shaw the motherfuckers 420
yeah that's you know and six foot eight
I'm 510 like hey man cool you know so
like I'm fortunate like most people
don't talk shit to me person it's like
all on social media but it did happen
one time in Texas of all places
I just finished a truck pull event this
guy was like call me a faggot from the
stands like all this stuff and like I
just look and I was like dude I suck
dick and I'm stronger than you and the
whole crowd just kind of like went quiet
and then he walked they just went quiet
yeah you know I think like in that
situation like I feel like people feel
like they're invincible like they feel
like they have the power cuz they're in
the crowd yeah and like they don't
expect like somebody like who's
competing to like say something back to
him right well like I'm not gonna hit
like they take that shit it's amazing
it's only when one guy though yeah that
shows you how the times are changing for
sure no and yeah it's in you know
luckily like you know I was dubbed like
the unofficial fan favorite at World's
Strongest Man this year so it's really
cool to see the support throughout the
entire community how do you get dubbed
the unofficial fan favorite who I was
getting like the loudest applause
whenever my night no it's true yeah
that's so the announcers just kind of
were calling me the fan favorite that's
cool
I'm happy with the way things are going
with septon totally it's changing right
it's getting a lot better you know and
we're super fortunate and that's kind of
like when I came out like I'm lucky
because I had this like I really don't
give a fuck mentality when I came out I
didn't care what people thought I didn't
care who thought you know if they didn't
like me they didn't like me I'll just
cut him out you know fortune I didn't
have to do that how did that transpire
was it because the weight of it was so
it was it gave me so much relief that
you felt like who gives a shit now now
I'm free was it like that was there was
a lot that went into it so I like in my
mind I didn't like want to come out
until I I it seems dumb now like and I
knew I was really gay and I guess you
know dating my now husband for six weeks
that was kind of the tipping point
and at that point in our relationship we
kind of realize like alright this wasn't
just gonna be like a fling and just
having fun like we were actually you
know taking the steps to kind of be
committed and see what was gonna happen
here
not expecting marriage but so I came out
mainly because of him because he had he
had been out since he was 17 and at this
point we were 22 and I didn't feel like
it was fair for him to be in a
relationship with somebody that was
still in the closet mm-hmm
and that was like my biggest motivator
for it and once you so you so you were
already happy so you're in this happy
relationship so if people were upset at
you you like I don't give a fuck I have
what I want I'm a better place yeah and
you also I mean a must feet I'm in
putting words in your mouth but it must
feel like when you do become out or you
do come out they must feel like a not
just a relief but like you're you you've
solidified you're fine you're free
you're you yeah I mean it's it's
exhausting like waking up every day
pretending to be somebody or not yeah
you know like you literally have to act
different than you want to did you have
to talk to about girls to guys like when
you were on yeah I was always just like
I the funny thing is like after I came
out like nobody was surprised so I feel
like I was the guy that was just kind of
like in the background like awkwardly
laughing when guys were talking about
girls oh my god oh yeah really but I'm
looking at the guys in bulges later you
know right behind us that's hilarious
do you remember it a year like when you
were young when you were like hey
something might be different um you know
I think like I think back to like middle
school and you know I think it's just
like the stereotypical like I was in the
theater I was into music I played sports
but wasn't really that good at them and
actually was a cheerleader in middle
school too like I was I did I joined my
first cheerleading team in seventh grade
and you know the funny thing is is you
know there was tryouts and everything
and I got the fourth highest score out
of all the girls so I figured that was
you know a little telltale sign that was
a time
you know not stereotyping male
cheerleaders whatsoever but I have a
buddy who's a male cheerleader who's
awesome he's chappelle's 99.9% sure he's
straight spell lazy but he's built like
a brick shithouse to there I mean
collegiate cheerleaders are insane yeah
but you have to be able to flip through
the air people don't understand what
cheerleading is right they think of it
it's like Jack go team no it's not crazy
acrobatic even in high school like I was
throwing girls up in the air by myself
and catching them overhead yeah you know
like doing shit like that yeah that's
what's weird
yeah Chapelle does the stuff where he
grabs him by the feet and flips them in
the air yeah catches them on one it's
stupid it's bananas yeah the amount of
physical power you have to have to be
able to do that timing coordination yeah
yeah it's crazy I mean you have to be a
fucking savage to throw someone in the
air catch them with one hand it takes a
lot of balls a lot of fucking power -
yeah the explosive power for sure most
men shitting on cheerleaders could never
pull that off
no no it's fucking hard can you do all
the flips and chipped in a backhand
surprise oh no could you do it back then
no no no that's that's actually one of
the reasons why like so I when I was
doing it in high school like actually
looked to do it in college at the
collegiate level but tumbling was like a
minimum requirement and I was like a
little too chunky so how did you get
into powerlifting and strongman time
sure so that like honestly totally by
chance I was working out in my high
school weight room one day after school
and a substitute teacher happened to
walk by who owned a CrossFit gym and he
was like hey you know I I'm at this
CrossFit gym like you seem like you like
this stuff and you're pretty strong like
feel free to come by so I would start I
actually started training with him like
5 o'clock in the morning before school
but and I found him really quickly I
sucked a CrossFit but I liked the
lifting heavy shit and this was back in
2009 and walked into the gym one morning
and they were like hey there's a local
strongman contest this Saturday we
signed you up for it
so when you say you sucked at CrossFit
Cross was just a bunch of Olympic lifts
and different explosive exercise yeah I
just wasn't in shape oh right so the
ability to do math well in the work
yeah yeah yeah right so yes so they
signed me up for my first contest I was
17 years old I know it had never touched
an implement I had just seen it on TV
like everybody else in world Strongest
Man got my ass kicked it took last place
but you were 17 and how much lifting had
you done previous to that maybe four or
five months really but at that point
like I I had hit the 500 pound deadlift
she's only been lifting for a couple
months yeah Oh see just a freak
genetically in a foolish in a few lifts
I was good at that's a lot of weight to
like for a few months of lifting yeah so
the contest went horrible for me but I
absolutely like fell in love with the
sport mm-hmm
ended up at Springfield College in
Massachusetts and join their
powerlifting team and that's when I kind
of got you know more of a background and
lifting proper technique and all that
stuff and then did another local
strongman contest where I met this guy
Matt Mills who owns a gym Lightning
Fitness in Connecticut where I trained
now and he was like yeah you know like
I'm just starting to get all the
strongman equipment you should come down
it's only about 30 minutes from their
school so I would I actually would go
there every Saturday morning from when I
was in college to Train strongman and
that's when I kind of started competing
in the amateur circuit you know and
that's kind of led me on my trajectory
to here so you one of those rare people
that actually lives in Connecticut I
live in Massachusetts good for you right
over the border good - yeah skate go
over there work out real quick and then
leave yeah Connecticut strange it's
something it's a strange place that's a
lost state
yeah so you get into powerlifting and
then what was your exposure to like
truck pulling and all that other crazy
shit um so really not much you know you
know the cool thing about strongmen is
every contest is different that we do um
we know we never do a same you know I've
done the sport for over 10 years now and
I've never done a contest where the
events have been the same in that span
of time do you know what it's gonna be
before you sign up typically so you know
we get about a series of lifts 8 to 12
weeks notice depending on the contest
so the gym that I was going to in
Connecticut they were just starting to
acquire strongman equipment so it was
pretty bare-bones so like we had a steel
log you know for the log cleaning press
they had some atlas stones some farmers
handles a yoke and that's pretty much it
and then over the years he would get
more and more and more and now it's
turned into this massive 15,000 square
foot facility and the gym on a recom and
equipment whore because he buys some
every time something new comes out he
buys it so yeah like my my exposure to
the equipment in the beginning was
pretty minimal but what I did to
compensate for that is I just competed
more so I would pretty much from
Springfield Massachusetts I drew a five
hour radius from where I was and any
contest there was in that radius I would
do so in my first like three years I
competed probably like almost 40 times
whoa how often do these things being
held at the amateur level pretty often
there's usually you could find you know
I would say one or two you know per
month in New England alone really um and
then they're all over the country so you
know I think the cool thing is you know
like I was really I said I took last in
my first contest and that went on for a
while I took dead lasting like my first
eight shows that I did it's like I
wasn't good at this thing
when I started now when did you start
being successful twenty so I went to
amateur Nationals actually in the 200
pound weight class
so I weighed in a hundred 200 pounds in
2011 that was my first time at in the
amateur national so I'd been doing it
for about two years
surprising myself and ended up taking
second place in that weight class went
back to the amateur Nationals as a 231
and 212 and took second place there and
then won the amateur national
championship in 2013 and that's where I
beat you know where I won my pro card
and kind of got to that next level but
it's such a difficult thing to do that I
would imagine doing it 40 times a year
like you're gonna get injured luckily I
didn't really yeah I mean you know I'm
fortunate where I'm I'm so by trade and
what I went to school for is I'm an
athletic trainer so Sports Medicine has
kind of been my thing so you know I've
been lucky
enough to learn when I was training of
when I need to back off when I can push
a little bit harder what needs to be
taken care of and just try to be smart
you know I'm him you know
knock on wood you know I've had one
serious injury in the ten years that
I've been doing this what was a it was a
summer of 2018 I dropped a 275 pound
Atlas stone on my chest
oh so fuck tore my QL in my low back
broke three ribs oh Jesus put me out of
commission for a little while and you
know what you drop it where was it was
at a contest I was in the second place
by one point so it was the final event
of the contest and I went to push the
stone onto the so the thing is with me
being only 510 with the Atlas stones
like the first box you have to put the
stone on is high you know so this was 75
inches tall mmm
you know and I'm only 510 so that was
literally like eyebrow height so eyelid
had to like press it up onto the box and
I thought it was up there
it wasn't secure to ended up rolling off
fell on my chest oh yeah fuck and you
know naturally that was the first
contest my mom had come seen in person
in like four years
she saw baby killed by a boulder yep
perfect diagram yeah so how long it take
you to recover from that let's see that
was that was in June or June or July of
2018 and I didn't do my next contest
until March of 2019 oh wow yeah it took
me out for a while yeah I could only I'm
at 275 pound stone ball and that was the
lightest one we had in the series Wow
mmm Jesus Christ so just your background
in understanding athletic science or
exercise science allows you to know when
you're being silly and when you you know
you're not gonna be a pussy but you're
not gonna be dumb exactly and I think
that's where it's that's why I've been
lucky you know and you know kind of
state injury-free because even like to
this day like you know so my coach is um
you know pretty well renowned strongman
Derek Poundstone who you know to expect
can place our world Strongest Man and he
programs some crazy shit for me
but there are some days where I'm just
like yo dude this is not gonna fly today
when you have a light like what's a
light day you know so like I trained
four days a week
and I get like one like I call him like
my bro day it's like my bench back and
arms day you know Powerman do that yeah
yeah so it's more just like because like
bench press is gonna like build up your
triceps is gonna build up the anterior
delt it's gonna help like you bench
press actually helps your overhead lifts
and so I do that and that that's what I
can sit like my light day but like I'll
still bench like in the mid fours mmm so
so four days a week yeah and so how do
you how do you structure it do you do
every other day do you do um it all
depends on the week really so typically
I try to go Tuesday Thursday Friday
Sunday that's usually my my average week
so Tuesday is like my big overhead day
where I'll do a strongman movement
overhead select log press or dumbbell
and that a bunch of shoulder overhead
accessory work Thursday my day two is my
biggest days so I squat and deadlift in
the same day um and that's a workout
that sometimes takes four to five hours
really yeah so you do big spaces in
between each workout so you lift and
then do you have like a large take about
10 15 minutes which means that sometimes
like you know like we're building up the
Arnold strongman Classic in Columbus
Ohio this coming March and you know we
have a max deadlift coming up and you
know I'm potentially gonna be on for a
1,000 pound deadlift Christ you know so
like to get through a deadlift workout
where I'm dead lifting oh yeah there's
me there's huge look at the bar bending
that's most fucked up about it so that
was that was 850 pounds on the on the
the deadlift right there what is that
that dumbbell right there that Dumbo was
250 250 one arm overhead press yeah
fuckin a the the deadlift though is so
what is that fucking thing that's called
a Husa felt stone coffin yep pretty much
that weighs 450 Wow
you wearing like a back strap let go
yeah so we're a belt
yeah so we're at work yeah yeah was it
so it helps like build intra-abdominal
pressure it also gives just like some
tactile feedback to like know where you
need to brace so usually weightlifters
like we'll put it we're like we feel
weakest in our core and that's gonna
help us activate those muscles to be a
little bit stronger and you know more
effectively brace to prevent injury
because I never I never understood how
it would protect you from a lift like if
you're lifting heavy weights and you got
that strap around your back yeah it's
not really technically meant to like
protect per se more just to like help
add extra support mmm that's the biggest
thing so it does you you don't do heavy
lifts without no no no I keep it on yeah
whenever I'm going heavy that's pretty
much standard for power lifters oh yeah
powerlifting strongman used yeah we're
all wearing like pretty heavy-duty belts
now when you train do you train to doing
strongman stuff like do you pull trucks
and shit like in training yeah so um
leading up to World Strongest Man I knew
we had a truck pool we actually got to
pull the the grave digger and the
Monster Jam fire truck really the the
monster trucks at worlds this year which
is pretty cool
what's the grave digger way well so the
funny thing is it only weighs 15,000
pounds so they had to grab a second one
and attach them so we were hired two of
them at one time how does one ever say
it only weighs 15,000 pounds that's what
I want to know cuz I suck at that event
well I don't you know I would like it if
it was only one of them but that's
that's an event where it must help to be
450 pounds huge huge advantage you know
you look at guys like me you know again
only 510 about 285 competing against in
my qualifying group at Worlds was Thor
bjornsen the mountain from Game of
Thrones yes how much exact fucker with
six nine four forty Jesus that bitch has
a six pack six nine four four days so
that's Thor doing the event right there
and you can see gravedigger right behind
him and then behind that they attached
with a metal pole to the Monster Jam
oh so you use a rope to pull you as well
yeah so it's like kind of you get a
little bit of lever yeah
there's a second truck two trucks that
is ridiculous yeah so leading up to
world Strongest Man I actually became
really good friends with the
firefighters in my local town and I just
I talked to the fire chief I was like
hey can I borrow one of your trucks to
fuck fire breaks out okay we got our
friend he's out there pulling it they
can wait
yeah his were his responses are you
shitting me I was like I'm actually
serious so I actually I was pulling that
that was pulling that fire truck like
once or twice a week for like six weeks
leading up to world strongest how much
is a fire truck way um depends if the
water is in it or not I found that out
the first time it wasn't so it was only
about 28,000 pounds and it was actually
only 28,000 scheduled that ain't shit
the second time the water was in it so
it was 40,000 oh no I was a little bit
harder and it made me look like an ass
because like I had told my friends that
I was doing this this time thinking that
it was the same truck and it was as
light as it was the first time I was
like all right I look pretty cool in
front of everybody and then I got to
pull it I'm like this is heavier yeah
that's that's a lot difcil it's an
extra 12,000 fucking package yeah and so
like I was training in a 50 foot course
and like that 40,000 pound truck it was
taking me like almost 90 seconds to pull
and that's like 90 seconds of just
non-stop work Christ what does that do
to your knees the knees aren't too bad
honestly it's just like a full body like
burning like everything hurts
right like nothing feel like your arms
are pumped because you're pulling on the
rope in front of you your quads and your
calves are just you know pump to the max
at that point I'd be worried about like
knees and ankles am I the biggest injury
that you see with like a truck pull is
like the Achilles tendon rupture right
and something and kilise tendon will
just like pop off when you're trying to
pull it that makes sense cuz you're just
pushing off with your foot pressure Oh
fucker yeah god damn whatever sport is
really great it's a sadistic sport it's
just so crazy to watch people pull two
trucks like up human being pulling two
trucks it's per pot I see you with the
fire truck that's that's more
so you pulling a fucking fire truck it
was pretty fun yeah sure if you could do
it yeah exactly if you do it's fun just
that's a weird thing with people right
to just love to be able to do something
that's hard to do and I think that's why
like all of us are attracted like strong
man that's why we compete yeah you know
like like I said in the beginning of the
show like it's we all have to be a
little bit fucked up in the head to look
at a truck and get excited to pull it
yeah look there it is that's so crazy
there yeah I pull the truck that's my
coach behind it yeah yeah have you ever
seen the video of the strongman who
throws the barrel up it hits the bar
fall back and hits the back of the head
dude that was on him is that guy dead
now he lived whoa yeah what kind of a
human can survive that I don't know I
think it was an empty cake that makes it
was it was a fucking aluminium barrel
bouncing off your skull yeah yeah yeah
he was knocked out cold for a little
while no how old do you know I'm 28 just
for 28 November is there a life span for
doing what you do because I would
imagine like you yes you know men
distress um you know I think like we see
most of the guys that are in their prime
like mid-30s I would say like early to
mid-30s it's kind of like the prime for
most strongmen athletes but then you got
guys like Mark Felix from the UK who's
53 and he's still competing and breaking
World Records what yeah to piss test
that guy he's on all the shit
53 83 he also he has the biggest hands
and strongmen so they actually don't fit
on an 8 by 11 piece of paper what yeah
so his hands like 11 and a half 12
inches long yeah that's ridiculous it's
like Shaq hands it's crazy but that's
when he the world records that he gets
are all in grip events ironically and
then I have like you know the where's
the meat Mans and can't hold on anything
god damn 53 it's crazy it's absolutely
crazy and he looks like he's 38 you
gotta picture that guy Jamie got
sidetracked by trying to find his hands
in the middle there Wow look at them
holes mark fucking-a look at those
ciders hands
crazy there so long yeah that is
incredible though that he's 53 Lehren
it's taken people yeah so at the contest
that we do in the Ennis it is fingers
those are fuckin the sausages yeah the
contest that we do in England through a
company called Giants live that's like
one of their promo things that they do
in the in the in the magazines that they
give everybody where they'll actually
put a life's you know a picture of his
hand so everybody can compare his hand
to to their own Jesus Christ so big that
yeah that would definitely help man
definitely help that's incredible that
he's still competing at such a high
level of 58 what is it injuries right
there look at his elbow
what's Kyle's probably a torn bicep is
that common supercut yeah torn bicep I
would say is like arguably the most
common injury in strongman and what is
it which which lifts usually cause that
to blow out usually you'll see that on
Atlas stone tire flip or if you're dead
lifting with like a mixed grip with the
under hand on the barbell usually the
bicep will pop off in the elbow and roll
up into the shoulder what are you
thoughts about deadlifting on a mixed
grip do you think that you should do
that or should you do it both I mean if
you're using the straps like if you're
using straps to aid in the grip and kind
of take the grip out go double overhand
because there's really no point to have
a mixed grip and put you at risk of an
injury when you don't need to the straps
kind of take the grip out of the work
for you but for powerlifting that's not
allowed so they have to compete with
them they have to deadlift without
straps so there's two options you can go
with you can go with the mixed grip or
hook grip which hook grip is you wrap
your hand around the bar and then put
your fingers over your thumbs mmm and it
hurts like a motherfucker because their
bar is just resting there on your thumb
and then pushing down on it but it you
get a better grip and it you know kind
of yeah just like that that's weird why
would that be easier I don't know but it
works all right it's just if you have a
really good pain tolerance it's the way
to go because then you're taking out
that bicep from the equation and you
won't have any risk of injury with that
mmm that's interesting and but that does
that's not the case with like far more
Cary's or any farmers walk or anything
no so with farmers like the handles are
usually a little bit too big to be able
to get like a grip like that so
literally it's just a straight up grip
event and I hate them do you do a lot of
training with like big thick grip things
like I know a grog has those balls that
you can do chin-ups with and yeah yeah
do you like fat gripz like whenever I do
like bicep curls sometimes I'll put like
just fat grips on to the dumbbells yeah
I'm just doing that just to work it I do
a lot of shrugs stuff like that whether
it's with farmers handles or a frame or
a barbell or dumbbells and if that's the
case I'll put like fat grips on there to
try to work the grip as well that so
that dude is 53 years old and he's still
competing at the top of the food chain
when you do you see yourself possibly
doing that dude just 25 more fucking
years for you I don't see me doing it
for that long I think my goal is to get
to like 35 and kind of evaluate where I
am yeah I think if I can do this until
I'm 35 at this level that would be a
really good run because I'd made my
first world Strongest Man appearance
when I was 25 so if I can go to Worlds
ten years you know I'd be really happy
with that this is a it's a crazy way to
make a living it's a crazy way to spend
your time and like to pursue your life
yeah do you because you're you're
banking everything on your body hanging
in there pretty much yeah yeah what do
you like what is when one has a job that
at 35 you're most likely probably gonna
be on your way out the door how do you
structure your life you know for me I'm
fortunate you know to have my master's
degree in athletic training in sports
medicine so I keep that you know valid
and up-to-date and I still do like per
diem work all throughout you know New
England just trying to keep my chops up
on that whenever I have the free time to
do so but I mean a per diem work like I
mean so like I'll cover I'll cover like
high school hockey games or college
games and just work as an athletic
trainer just pretty much for the day
okay you know just taking care of any
injuries stuff like that you know that's
kind of my wheelhouse
you know taping concussion evaluation
all that stuff oak injury rehab yeah now
what kind of like I would imagine with
were you talking about these four-hour
deadlift squat days I mean you must have
some serious rehab
routine that you go through right yeah
you know I mean I do everything from
like self massage and you know I have my
own stim unit at home and do that but
then I'm also doing recovery workouts on
my off days so how much those stim
things help those electrical stimulation
what one do you use compacts compacts
yeah that's the brand that I go with so
you have it's like those glue things
just put them on and then the nice thing
about the compacts was is like they're
pretty much foolproof so like has like
12 to 15 pre-programmed settings you put
you kind of like punching what body part
it's on and then you just pick what
setting you want it on so it's like pain
relief training recovery competition
recovery muscle activation there's a
bunch of different ways to use it and
then you just hit go and it goes oh so
just it's awesome
whiney TV or something yeah yeah but I
have it in my carry-on so when I fly
home tonight I'll put it on during my
seven-hour flight home and I use it
someone sent me one years back but I
never fucking used it Compaq something
write that down yeah I I think they're
awesome yes so long with that than I do
I do recovery workout so like I'll go to
the I'll go to like a commercial gym and
you know I'll swim not well do hot tub
sauna and then I have like a massage
therapist and bodywork person that I go
and see I try to see every week but
sometimes is every other week where they
do deep tissue massage cupping dry
needling the whole nine yards on me dude
you're so dense you must have a fucking
seriously powerful massage therapist if
someone's gonna go deep tissue works in
pro hockey selling is no joke that's the
key right is having someone who's really
good it yeah it took me in there it took
me a while to find this guy and
ironically like him and I ended up we
were at college together
and he was in the area and I was like oh
you know like he's getting massage
degree I know he's an athletic trainer
and he has a really good background of
the body and injuries and stuff like
that let me see how it works and he lit
me up the first I just go to a regular
spa sleep you know yeah it feels great
it just took an hour I just paid 90
bucks for a nap thanks it doesn't do
enough right no
like I mean I tell me like I'm usually
more sore when I leave a massage than
when I go in but then the next day I
feel great yeah it breaks everything
loose yeah seems weird that you can just
manipulate injuries or tight spots into
pliability but it does work well that's
the thing that's well like I've been
huge into the dry needling lately mm-hmm
and I think it's awesome so it's pretty
much like acupuncture with science
behind it so now dry needling is they
take these needles and they just sort of
shove it into the muscle yeah wherever
there's like a trigger point or
tightness or restriction they'll go in
and they don't just leave it there like
they'll move it around while it's in
there and it's not terribly
uncomfortable unless there's like a spot
that's really fucked up but it works
great like I had some low back pain that
was killing me for a long time and it
ended up being because of my so as my
hip flexors were super tight he threw a
couple needles on my in my hip flexors
and by the time I got off that table all
of my back pain was gone have you ever
used one of those so right things oh
yeah yeah they're amazing but I mean you
see Jesus the design whoever the sick
fuck is that created that is a genius
really yeah with the scoop yeah
fits perfectly it's comfortable yeah it
digs in there but you can use that
fucker on everything every fact yeah
yeah I'm a big fan of that I'm a big fan
of those you have Kelly Starr it's
mobility wad yeah that ball yep those
fuckers you lie on there I got those
scattered all over the gym out there
sure and and I used his like the Voodoo
band the flossing hey I do that you know
cuz with the stuff that we do you know
like my elbows get beat to shit you know
if I'm doing heavy bench press and like
even like the dumbbell that you saw
earlier and like just having like 250
pounds cranked on your shoulder like
that yeah just puts a ton of strain in
the elbows like my elbows get beat up
pretty good in that time you using the
Voodoo band is huge for that well so
what that just it constricts and then
you do a little bit of an exercise with
it and then you undo it
yes refine I kind of manipulated a
little bit too so sometimes like if I
have a spot mailable that's really
killing me I'll put a golf ball on it
and then wrap the band around the golf
ball yeah
and then I'll go through that range of
motion and move my arm around yes well
do exercises like that but like I said
sometimes I'll throw like the golf ball
in there so it hurts like a bitch but it
works great yeah I'm a big fan of it for
I had a little bit of a tendinitis issue
in my shoulder or in my elbow rather
that helped a lot I think it's great
elbow people using like a patellar
tendonitis on their knees so like all
stuff like that is and that's the thing
like with a lot of strongmen in general
like a lot of us do like that body work
and like try to stay healthy because
have to well at this level to like the
sport has exploded in the past few years
and like my competition season started
this past weekend and the last contest
I'll do is in October oh my god so it's
ten months long and as of right now I
have almost 13 contests planned now when
you have a contest so if you do some
crazy strongman competition how much
time do you give yourself after it's
over I mean I'll be back in the gym
tomorrow when I get home real and just
competed on Saturday okay well so you
take a couple days off two days off and
then get right back right back into it
yeah man I mean that's I mean that's
kind of a special consideration mainly
because like the contest I'm going into
is seen as like the the biggest contest
in the world so it's the Arnold
strongman Classic in Ohio only ten men
qualify for this contest yeah yeah so
and this is this will be my first year
competing there so my coach was just
like listen like you can't waste any
time we only have five weeks of training
essentially to get ready for this show
even though I've been prepping for it
for the past like you know six months we
used to do a UFC at the Arnold that is a
crazy show like wild it's wild and it's
gotten even bigger and there's so many
people walking around in baggy
sweatpants yeah so many dudes that you
sweat pants stringer stringer uh you
know stringer tank tops and that's you
know girls in nothing but spandex and
sports bras that whole industry is so
strange like they say influencer
industry yeah yeah I mean that's what
like honestly it took me so long to get
a sponsorship one because I'm not huge
and two because I don't have a six-pack
like nobody wants to look at like a
chubby pasty white dude on the front of
a lake sometime it's
no you could be built like this guy and
just pick up heavy shit half cool if
they don't care if you're powerful they
want you know like look like you're
dehydrated that's all yeah that's what
looks good on a poster yeah are you
starving and dehydrated with some spray
tan we want you we want you that's what
we're looking to be jacked and tan yeah
and that was yeah so that yeah that was
one of the things like that why it took
me like so long to get in with some
companies and like actually get a legit
sponsorship it's there anybody well that
guy bjornsen however the fuck you say
yeah the Thor guy he's got a six-pack
close to it yes that just preposterous
genetics it's stupid yeah well obviously
the size of him is just preposterous
that's that is Viking right that is
straight and his name is Thor yeah come
on come on that's that's the generation
after generation of Marauders yeah I
mean his dad is also like six eight it's
crazy
yeah I'm Owen makes sense so what is it
like when what is the difference between
someone that is that big that can stay
lean like why can he stay lean um I
think it's just like uh one I think it's
like the quality food that he eats you
know like with him being arguably the
strongest man in the world you know he
didn't win World's Strongest Man this
year but he's been dominant over the
past two years he beat him Martines Lee
sees from the UA he's actually right
here in LA visit yeah yeah he just won
back in back in June he's from the UK is
that we were saying you you said you owe
us originally from Latvia and now he's
lived in the US I mean for as long as I
can remember how big is that fucker he's
six
there's martini on me so he's about like
six three about 350 so he beat door yes
crazy yeah he beat a guy that's a
hundred and fifty pounds heavier than
him yeah that's crazy I mean that's the
thing about the sport you know like I so
the way I qualified for the contest in
Ohio
besides that fucker yeah so the way the
way I qualified for this the contest in
Ohio was um by winning the Arnold in
Australia
and you know I know like I said I'm the
smallest guy that does this at this
level and I was beating guys you know
like um Jerri Pritchett who's like six
six 370 you know like I you know so how
do you how are you got strong what is
the differential so what it is yeah
you know I think with me it's a it took
me a really long time yeah there's
Thorin Martines the size that fucker
god damn and I've the the woman on
Thor's right is are are left as his wife
yeah I've seen the two of them together
she's fired you larious so they're gonna
make a regular-sized kid but yeah you
know I think uh I think I got to this
level because like I was a student of
the sport for a really long time and I
like studied everything and I think
because you know I took so long to get
to where I am you know most guys that
are at this level it didn't take them
ten years to get there mmm
you know like guys like Brian Shaw like
Martines like they pretty much got to
worlds within two or three years this is
giant powerful people ya figure out the
work and for me it was like I needed to
learn how to make these events work for
my body you know so like that's with me
you know like so I have the current
American log press record and I don't do
like a typical push press I actually
split jerk underneath the log really and
I'm the only pro strongman at this level
that does that why do you do that it's
more efficient well they do it it's an
athletic quick movement and it's it
takes a lot of time and coordination to
learn with me having my background and
CrossFit that's where I learned the
split your technique and then when I got
more in a strongman I was like well I
really suck it trick pressing we explain
that to people with the differences so
like a push press is pretty much you get
the weight on your shoulders you dip
down and then just push the weight up
hit overhead like pretty much is with
like shoulder and tricep power with a
split jerk yeah we get you you get the
implement on your shoulders you do a
little dip and then you actually throw
yourself underneath the log while
splitting your feet
so it's like a little bit of a dance
almost so this is 455 pounds so you get
it up to your chest and then you'll see
me I dip and then
underneath it oh wow splitting my feet
and then catching overhead Jesus Christ
so what it does it shortens the range of
motion of the press mm-hmm
but it's it's kind of one of those like
risky all-or-nothing moves like with a
push press it's brute strength so you
can like kind of grind through it and
fight it and manipulate the log any way
you want but with a split jerk like it
has to happen or a doesn't there's got
to be that weird moment where you like
fuck this isn't happening
I got to drop this thing yep what does
that like throw it just hold 450 fucking
pounds over my head no I'm not taking it
I don't care what breaks as long as it's
not me actually after that was stoned
dropped on you right yeah you know it's
just uh for me it was yeah it was you
know adapting that splitter technique it
just it just made sense
and that's that's kind of how I was able
to progress to the sport to this level
and kind of do some things a lot of
people didn't think I would do being
this size now how much do you eat you
must be eating I did good about all the
time it's it's not a crazy amount no I
mean I say that like you know cuz I
think like you also said oh it's only
28,000 pounds I think like people get
caught up in like these ten thousand
calorie ting challenges like Obrestad
and Brian shod uh you know and stuff
like that I'm not that guy you know like
an average eating day for me is probably
around four to five thousand calories so
it's like it's a lot but nothing crazy
well Oberst is so big huge he's a giant
exactly you know like he was sitting in
this chair like I'm a little different
looking than him he's got double your
head his head is so wide you like what
are you yeah he looks like an over he's
he's the real-life Shrek great guy he's
awesome I love him you know is that
fucker huge they so the first
conversation Rob and I ever had was
actually at that contest in Texas when a
dude was calling me a fag from the
stands and we were hanging out before
the cut the day before the contest we
had never met in person before first
interaction we had were hanging out in a
hotel room a few of us a athletes and he
looks at me is like how old were you
when you knew you wanted a dick in your
mouth
[Music]
that's the first thing he said to you
first thing he ever said to me
would you answer I didn't know I didn't
know what's worse playa this league I
had seen a world Strongest Man before
like I've seen him I've seen him
competing for the past like three or
four years and that's the first thing
the motherfucker says to me yeah
so obviously like we got off to a great
start on our friendship you know and
like him and I still talk all the time
and you know he's bitter because I took
the the log press record from him back
in April yeah he's very upset with that
ya had that that was his it was his for
awhile like for four years no no you
wouldn't someone you lose something yeah
that's what competition is all about
exact words are meant to be broken you
know now what is your typical breakfast
for you like and how many times do you
eat in a day um I try to go between six
and eight meals oh so it all depends on
like when my training is and stuff like
that so you bring like little Tupperware
continuous with you and should yep
yeah um and to be honest I'm pretty
boring like I don't like to cook I love
to eat but I don't like to cook so I'll
pretty much eat the same thing almost
every meal um you know so it's pretty
much like chicken or beef and rice and
veggies pretty much it that's what
Robert was saying basically everybody's
like rice and meat yeah you know it's um
you know like I'm a fat kid so like I
don't like to just eat baked chicken
like that's why I'm not a bodybuilder
like I'm I can't look like that because
I just like the taste of food too much
so like I do like air fried chicken
fingers to make them healthy you know
that'll be the chicken that I eat you
know and then I'll throw some sauce on
top of it you know make the chicken
fingers what you do do you bread them in
every way
yeah what do you use for the breading
and everything usually I'll do like
panko and throw that with Bank panko
bread crumbs so it's just like a little
bit like a more coarse bigger you know a
little more crispy err which is nice too
because the texture is like I don't want
it to taste like mush when I'm eating it
like I like like a crunch a little
texture right but in the in the bread
crumbs I'll just use plain panko but I
like a like ranch seasoning packet to
throw some flavor in there get a little
crazy
mm-hm do like an egg wash bread them and
then throw them in the airfryer so you
don't have to worry about how much you
take in so you're basically just eating
whatever you want to eat and the reason
you eat so many meals a day is just
because you're burning off so much yeah
yeah and like I asked I just get hungry
right like I'm sure you're powerlifting
all the time yeah you know like I said
you liked my deadlift workout will take
4 to 5 hours but like there's some times
on the weekends when I'm doing my
strongman workouts I'll be at the gym
for like six to eight hours oh yeah six
to eight hours of lifting ridiculously
heavy shit yeah
I mean granted like a lot of the stuff
we do is like setting up and breaking
down right you know I can see the event
these events are cumbersome they're
annoying they're not easy to set up so a
lot of it's like just moving weight
schlepping across the gym and you know
setting these implements up but all in
all yeah be there for like six to eight
hours from the time I get there done
when I leave I won't imagine you would
need a lot of sugars oh yeah intro like
my the shake I drink during my workout
is almost a thousand calories well like
Gatorade protein I use a carb powder you
put Gatorade in a shake and then carb
powder on top yeah listen it tastes like
an orange creamsicle so you do like
orange Gatorade like a orange or a non
flavored carb powder and then vanilla
protein in just that's a thousand
calories yeah I mean it's also like 64
ounces oh okay so it's pretty big so
it's gotta be this balancing act between
getting a lot of protein but getting a
lot of carbohydrates and making sure
that you're carving the lesson yeah like
carbs that's like the the main thing you
know obviously eating a lot of protein
like I'm probably around like 300 grams
of protein a day between 3 and 350 but
carbs I mean there are some times I'm
eating like almost like 1500 grams of
carbs a day and is the reason why you
guys prefer rice is just because it's
easier to digest those other forms yeah
it's just easy to eat to you know like
because eating six to eight times a lot
and like you just get tired of chewing
right to be honest you know I know for
sure sculpted chin look you know and you
know that's why I like my coach when he
was competing he used to do a chicken
shakes well that's yeah he would
literally like boil chicken emblem
and it with water yeah that's mass and
he would drink those because he just
didn't want to eat all them together
chicken shake a chicken chin why does
that sound so gross yeah elf I couldn't
even look at Mel's like you're fucking
make me do that I'm kicking you in the
face so are you eating a lot of red meat
like what kind of uh what's your
preferred protein I love bison bison
bison is like my jam
um just ground bison try to go like 93 7
if I can super lean mm-hmm
yeah but all depends like you know
obviously there's a pro strong man I'm
not making that much money so you know
more of them more often than not it's
just like ground beef whatever I can get
that's good quality and he gets the
calories in yeah bison has got a higher
protein content right yeah yeah it's a
little bit leaner and I just it like
just tastes so much yeah you get that
grass fed bison yeah farmers great yeah
so how does a strong man make money do
you only make money if you win or do you
make money from sponsors like what's
your primary income coming both so my
main income is is mainly from
sponsorships you know so I'm sponsored
by a supplement company Blackstone labs
um SPD which is like an equipment
company they make like knee sleeves
belts elbow sleeve stuff like that and
then I a clothing company that's called
kind of fit kind of fat so it's great
yeah so they those are like my three
biggest supporters and and then on top
of that I also do like online coaching
for first ranked athletes all over the
world
so you know pretty much I write their
weekly workouts they send me videos I
collaborate with them get their
competition prep and get them ready to
compete so those are my two biggest main
it sources of income and then you know
on top of that and then you know prize
money is just kind of extra on top of
you know bonus essentially now you're
active on social media obviously you
have Instagram which is where I found
you but you do you have anything else
you do do you do YouTube do you do do a
podcast or anything mom
YouTube yes so same YouTube name world
strongest gay you know and then just
launched a website a couple weeks ago so
a lot of contents gonna be up there
website Rob Kearney strong man calm and
then um do you own world strongest
gay.com I don't who does I don't nobody
does actually what that's nonsense yeah
well listen this isn't live so let's
true match that shit get that right
after this show immediately yeah
go to world strong as gay calm do you
want to double that s because it could
make it interesting world world's or
world strong you know I mean type in
that double Asuna type in the SS it's SS
yeah it's the world's strongest gay let
me see that SS sure that might not exist
we're gonna we're gonna give you that
we're gonna buy it right now and give it
to you this is important because
otherwise some dick is gonna get it and
then yeah there's no you trade on it
that's fucked up that would be fun
really fucked all just vaginas 10 bucks
you can get it six match it up well it's
harder to transfer oh okay perfect
luckily we're not live so as soon as
we're done cold we'll let you do that
yeah you gotta own that manage you have
a divert right right yeah that's one
second watch it out of the HTTP in there
let me double oh Jesus Christ
don't applaud that's amazing when you
think about how many websites there are
there any available I know I know
well it's funny you know like now that
I'm getting more popular and stuff like
that like I'll get tagged and shit on
social media but there's also like an
Irish rugby player named Rob Kearney oh
it's like they'll sometimes like tag him
or like they'll mean to tag me so it's
like it's weird yeah well wait until
this is over
yeah they'll be fantastic how much you
must be getting I mean this is like the
first time probably the lbgtq community
has gotten behind a strong man though I
mean this isn't even just a pro athlete
general really you know I think well
that's like that's the biggest reason
for my Instagram name is just like
showing LGBTQ like visibility and pro
sports because it doesn't exist right
you know like there's a few in fighting
the UFC Amanda Nunez
greatest women of all time she's gay Oh
what which is great and that's a cool
but men mmm different animal yeah you
know I think like there's this really
big disconnect we're like people think
like okay lesbian women are allowed to
be strong they're allowed to be athletic
they can do all these really cool things
gay men have to be feminine they have to
be put in this box and they shouldn't be
pro athletes and that's one of the
biggest reasons why I'm so you know I
call myself like unapologetically open
about my sexuality because like it
really is you know the more you think
about it like if you even try to think
of like an openly gay man in any pro
sport across the world no there's no
really mainstream I think you forgot
about Brian Boitano Oh Touche
don't you remember South Park will Brian
Boitano do yeah Brian Boitano I mean
he's a goddamn trailblazer but yeah
other than figure skating who actively
competing right or sport there really
isn't anything and I'm not saying that
you know strongman is by no means like
major or mainstream yet but we're
getting there people know about it for
sure and I think to see like an openly
gay man you know I say competing and
arguably one of the most like hyper
masculine sports in the world
yeah you know I think like when I think
of masculine sports I think like UFC and
lifting shit right yeah like right like
one you're beating another dude up the
other one it's a bunch of guys standing
around a weight being like oh I'm gonna
pick it up no I'll pick it up I'll pick
it up faster you know like it's like
Neanderthal almost yeah that's top of
the food chain manly shit exactly yeah
so I think it's like super important to
see like an openly gay man in a
relationship rocking a rainbow mohawk
and rainbow tights out on a competition
floor I think that makes people feel
more comfortable than if you just out
there sling and dick oh yeah you weren't
in a relationship you were openly gay
and just fucked up like hey this guy
pick up the fucking moon and he could
but fuck you
well that's danger that was like one of
my buddies he said he's like you know
I'm not afraid of you but what does
scare me is if you wanted to rape me
he's setting you up well I don't
definitely don't ready but if you were
gonna disrupt you could grab me right
here yeah that's uh but yeah those are
definitely I mean right after fighting
that is the most manly shit picking shit
up exactly you know so I think that's
why like that's why you know I've been
so open about my relationship and what
I'm doing in the sport and just trying
to be more visible for the LGBTQ
community in pro sports in general you
know cuz like I said before like I get a
shit ton of hate messages on a daily
basis and read them all the time why do
you even love it really um and I know a
lot of people don't but like to me I use
it as fuel like there's no bigger fuck
you to that person than me winning right
you know like so that's how I that's how
I look at it like okay dude talk shit
about me all you want I'm the American
mob press record holder yeah I won in
Australia I'm competing against the top
I'm one of the top 10 strongest men in
the world competing at this Arnold
strongman Classic in March so that's why
I love it like I love reading that but
like it is a funny thing you said that
guy in the audience I saw it's great but
the crowd goes silent my favorite pouch
that was California people probably
start cheering yeah well they lick
painters but totally sidetracked them
that's a good suckin dick and they you
know I get it it's you would think that
you would have a lot of sponsors that
would jump in because of this though I
would think because you're open and
because this is such a manly sport and
it's such a non stereotypical thing yeah
I would think that would be like really
positive for the lbgtq community yeah I
mean let's talk in a week girl let's see
what happens after the show we can help
you it's um you know and that's my
biggest thing like while doing this
whole thing is like just trying to
spread positivity and love throughout
the entire world you know I mean I talk
about the hate messages that I get but
like the ones that mean a lot are like
you know I got a message a few months
ago from a 16 year old kid who was on
the verge of committing suicide because
he couldn't
come to terms with the sexuality and he
said in his in his post like finding my
profile
let him be comfortable with himself you
know that's awesome crazy that's so good
it's like it's I never expected to be
that person just by saying I love this
dude but you know sometimes how you get
to be that person right yeah and
yourself exactly and I think that's
that's why this whole thing has kind of
blown up into what it is and why I'm you
know fortunate enough to now be working
on a documentary
what's the documentary so we literally
our we just met the film crew this week
those guys out there yeah the ones out
there okay so I was approached by Andy
who she was on the set of world
Strongest Man and she was like once she
saw my husband and I kiss after one of
the events like light bulbs just went
off and she was like there's something
here so I was approached about doing a
documentary count about my life and the
belt being the only openly gay
approached our man in the world
now are there closeted gay strong men
I'm sure there are and they just don't
talk to you probably you're dangerous I
know it's wild motherfucker with a
mohawk my bitch is coming for my title
[Laughter]
little card star coma now we're gonna
have to actually have have a contest for
this what if it what if strongman
becomes like the WNBA where everyone's
gay I'm just selfish I mean that's a
good argument that sponsors won't show
up though cuz fuckin everybody knows the
WNBA is gay as fuck true but it's bad
basketball too
yeah it's not great that's not good yeah
like at least strong men women Sports is
awesome but like I always think of like
the the Family Guy episode where they're
talking about the WNBA and they're like
oh and listen to the fan as one guy
cheering on the Pat and stands yeah it's
it's a tough sell it is sell but but
yeah strong man shouldn't be a tough
sell no you know and I think that's the
cool thing is like strong man in England
is massive really like we sell out like
fifteen thousand seat arena 's in the
euro
really yeah it is Hugh what about here
what does it like here yesterday or a
Saturday in Santa Monica we had about
1700 people that's a good crowd decent
decent calm and do it right on the pier
oh no sure yeah yeah they you know did
all the permits and shit yeah bleachers
set up had a and rogue was there to
livestream the entire event which is
really cool I love them all my shit out
there's Road they're so cool man but all
their stuff is great and you know we're
actually the organization Giants live
which is the world Strongest Man
qualifying tour
they're bringing an arena show to the US
for the first time since like 2010
that's going to be in Daytona Beach in
August August 15th so that's gonna be
like the first crack at like breaking
into the mainstream US you know arena
venues cuz like I said like over in the
UK when I broke the log press record
this past April is in it was in Leeds
and it was in front of a 12,000 seat
crowd Wow it was unbelievable why do you
think it's so popular over there you
know I think um I think the biggest
thing is they don't have sports to
compete with like we do here is many
sports yeah like what do they have like
decently bad soccer and rugby is it
their soccer bad soccer is not great
really yeah I thought English is really
into that I mean they are but doesn't it
okay
but yeah it's not good at Rugby either I
think they're pretty good at Rugby
pretty good yeah and then they have like
cricket but like they don't have the end
of oil they don't have sense I don't
know that is nonsense I just need the
one thing I know about cricket it was
like last week a dude got hit in the
balls twice in a row twice and that was
on ESPN that's the only reason I saw it
they showed cricket on the ESPN because
he got hit in the balls twice oh look in
the SportsCenter yeah the not top-10 I
used to have that late night on ESPN is
when you would see strongman
competitions yeah and since you know so
we're no longer with ESPN we've been
picked up by IMG and CBS which is great
so now world Strongest Man is aired on
CBS and CBS Sports so a little bit more
mainstream which is great you know and
then yeah so it's really exciting I'm
hoping this I'm hoping the u.s.
can kind of pick it up when it comes to
these these arenas these arena shows
what can make it more popular like what
do you think can be done to make people
understand it's fun to watch I sure I
think the us like I think people need to
like understand what we're doing and
like I think there's such a big respect
in the UK for strength
you know like Eddie Hall the were the
key one world Strongest Man in 2017 won
the contest once and then retired that's
it because there hadn't been a winner in
the UK since the 80s for world Strongest
Man so like he is just a household this
year that's Eddie yeah I'm not closest
to us
he holds big belly he has the deadlift
world records so he's the only Asian he
ded lifted 500 kilos so it deadlift at
1100 and 2 ounce sizes fucking guy so he
won world Strongest Man and everybody in
the UK knows his name
and that's how she where most of my fan
bases even is in the UK because this
sport is so big and you can see the
arena sold out there look this is the
last stretch Jay does any oh one more
fuck see that's the thing like people
think strong man just lifting shit like
we have to be athletic as fuck to do
this - wow that tires what got it for
him wow that's crazy
you don't like a tire yeah we have to
like run we have to be agile we have to
be able to carry stuff we have to be
able to lift heavy
well that's fifth and sixth place in
this video here yeah fucking that is
losers yeah that dudes neck starts
around the edges of his shoulders it's
crazy it's just a tube such a fucking
nutty sport man it is but it's so much
fun and like when you come and see a
live event it's wild you know because
like it the cool thing about strongmen
is like everybody like the fans and the
competitors like you want to see
everybody succeed so it's like one of
the few sports where you're like
cheering for someone as you're competing
against them which is awesome yeah you
know like you're kind of seen as a dick
if you if you finish an event and you
walk off and you in the person next to
you still going like everyone is like
dude what the fuck hey when you compete
do you have like patches on for your
sponsors a shit like that no so that's
where the tough part is you have to wear
the competition's shirt because there
are sponsors that pay to be on the
t-shirt now in between events if there's
interviews and stuff like that
that's when I'll throw in a sponsor
shirt to try to get them some TV time
that way but it's also tough because
like in the UK like all of those
competitions are aired on TV in the UK
in the u.s. the only time people see
strong man on TV is world Strongest Man
but what about YouTube YouTube is
growing and that's an offensive now I
would feel like that would be the big
venue for yeah you know you look at
Brian Shaw he has like oh Hamels like I
think it's like 1.3 million subscribers
on YouTube he's just picking up heavy
shit huge yeah it's just like all about
him like him and his wife will do like
eating challenges or the blackout's
together as an eating challenge with his
wife yeah that's it sister how BIG's his
wife she's tiny to space I don't know
how is she hanging in there with them
that doesn't even make any sense
oh let me get excited about pizza you
know like that stuff so so because the
reason why I was asking is because mmm
that would be used to be the thing back
in the early days with MMA fighters that
they could make money off a sponsor or
sponsors in there they're you know
they're shorts and stuff yeah I mean to
be honest like shorts and pants that's a
different story but you can wear
sponsors in your shorts absolutely oh
really so like the competition JRE patch
I could sponsor your shorts totally
really well I mean I wear spandex though
so how do you put us you can put a patch
if they have to make that's always my
goal like I always try to where I get
mad that's fine sponsor him - yes my
goal is to try to wear like the craziest
most outrageous spandex at every contest
I go - oh yeah you need sequins can you
have sequins on yours I haven't yet I
don't know why I haven't thought about
who need them like the ones I wore this
past weekend were like swirly rainbow
nice yeah it was awesome hot pink with
sequins bro yeah yeah I'm down for that
yeah yeah for sure all right
I love these ideas Joe this is yeah I'm
all about it all right any spandex
people listen and of yes any any spandex
designers and
instructors of spandex you know how to
put together a good secret kit can't the
sequence can't fall off
no no cuz I'll be dead less you're and
running yeah anchored especially dead
lifting right because it's going up your
thigh I think would have to do the suit
comes on the side yeah like racing
stripes Oh super gay racing stripes I
like it I like it now when you are doing
this like what what kind of shoes do you
guys wear because the those guys were
running but you're also I would imagine
you have to have something that's very
flat with like serious I'm super bougie
so who should I bring like a five
different pairs of shoes to every
contest but what do you prefer like what
kind of changes every event depending on
what the brand I go with his innovate
innovate I love all their stuff it's I
Nov 8 is it a powerlifting only brand or
lifting knee so they have lifting shoes
that I wear from my overhead events then
I wear like they're barefoot shoes mmm
that's what I do for like my moving
events and when I deadlift and then they
also have like hiking like shoes that
are like anti-slip that I'll use like
when I do truck pull or pushing events
as well yeah and now are their sponsor
working on it come on innovate they sent
me a bunch of stuff for free
so it's better than nothing yeah totally
and they're honestly they're the most
comfortable shoes I have worn when
training let me see what that looks like
let me see with them innovate shoes look
like I don't know go with the barefoot
one let me see what that looks like
they're super light - yeah yeah
that's what I think I like about them -
even their like their weight lifting
shoes are light because those are you
like clunky and heavy and I'm really
like especially like when I'm doing like
a split jerk trying to move my feet fast
right last thing I want is heavy things
on my feet okay yeah those are the
lifting shoes that I have I like that so
the platform in the back yeah so they
have a raised heel about what 3/4 of an
inch
now that's for when you're lifting like
it's almost like standing on plates
right yes yeah that'd be like if they're
squatting I'm using that and then I like
it for overhead lifts just because it
gives you a little bit more stability
now why do you have to stand on plates
like what is the idea behind that like
the just raise the back raising the heel
in it takes out the issue of ankle
mobility
in a lift like a squat mmm so there's a
lot of restriction in the ankle and the
Achilles if they're tight and that'll
prevent you from that'll either cause or
prevent you from your knees tracking
properly it'll put extra strain on the
hips and on the ankles so doing that it
kind of takes the ankle complex out of
the motion and makes the the movement
easier you can eat keep a more upright
spine a little bit more comfortable lift
so that's usually the thought process
behind it so when you have that elevated
heel then you don't have to stand on
plates or anything like that I just use
it just yeah just just a shoe yeah so
that it's interesting that there's
different you were different ones for
different events yeah so the pulling for
the truck tire one you use a hiking one
so you're saying so this will be my
first time using that typically we use
rock climbing shoes because real grip
super grippy and especially like we're
pulling on asphalt usually mm-hmm so
that'll dig into the asphalt these ones
that I have from innovate now they're
they they're like anti slip and they
have gripping treads on them so I'm
gonna be using them for an event called
the wheel of pain coming up at the
Arnold strong man classic which is based
off of the movie Conan the Barbarian oh
where you see him pushing the big bomb
yeah I'm a big implement so they
actually rogue recreated that implement
know where the Arnold yeah if you can
pull a picture of that it is the most
badass thing ever
Arnold this is like a three hundred
thousand dollar piece of even did it
with the carving is yeah dude that's so
cool wild so you literally just have to
push it so those big wheels are filled
with sand because they'd obviously don't
want to make it too easy for us Wow and
you just have to push it in a circle as
far as you can in 75 seconds oh wow
that's everybody looks fucking exhausted
how 60 seconds even better it just hurts
man looks like it just is it's like I
mean you know like I mean you work out
so it's like imagine even doing
something like as simple as like rowing
on an ERG for 60 seconds just all album
non-stop guys pushing with his head yeah
so this last year was the first year
they did this event and they changed the
rules this year where you have to keep
your hands on the implement like that
like Brian's doing right there
someone was just using their head yeah
so they don't want anybody to do that
anymore seems like that would crush all
your vertebra yeah so you have to keep
your hands on the implement at all times
and push like that what a dope design
though I mean it really does yeah that's
fucking it's so cool it's all carved out
of wood - who built that fucking thing
rogue they just hired artists to car
that rogue aliens get this because
everybody they I mean any anything
anything you could think of they're the
shit they have people to make it they're
fucking echo bike is the greatest cardio
machine thing that I've ever used best
and worst because it hurts it's the best
but look at this fucking thing with the
snakeheads and everything yeah what a
genius could see it rolling back when he
let go and that's because there's sand
in those big wheels so you have to push
it against sand so now they have to
deconstruct this and bring it back and
put it back together again because it's
now you could fucking ship it and this
is the this is the only contest they use
it for
they usually one time he is using his
shoulders yeah he's Russian what do you
expect
rozgin nod older that is a crazy thing
though yeah that you can kind of use
your shoulders and push with your hands
yeah so this will be the second time
we're doing this event so they switched
it a little bit have to keep your hands
on the implement at all times and then
it's just push until you can't anymore
god damn that's bananas look at that
yeah everybody looks so tired I mean
this is one of those events were like
usually like the medics will come over
like with oxygen afterwards
oh yeah it's crazy bum bum bum yeah and
he's got that Russian brewery on too so
he actually he actually isn't the
Russian military - is he really he's
like the Russian equivalent of like
Green Beret so he then he does strongman
on top of that yeah that's a manly
motherfucker he's scary
he's the next guy to come on he's super
nice but you know guaranteed so free Rob
that's so free I could not be on
everything his English isn't that good
no no it's so bad no but they also I
mean these Eastern Europeans are smart
because they'll play dumb on purpose to
not listen to the rules oh and in travel
oh really oh yeah sneaky fuck yeah like
I don't know but they fucking know yeah
how many Russian guys win it cuz you
would think that would be a thing like
Russian you think of strong people you
think of Russians Eastern Europeans are
always in the mix um but honestly like
dominating across the board lately he's
been us Iceland and that's about it is
it because we have the best steroids it
could be you might have something to do
it yeah yeah what kind of testing do
they do yeah there's look I mean they
test us do they they don't tell us what
for oh so nobody gets in trouble
no I got caught from weed what well I
mean they said do you smoke I was like
well it's legal in Massachusetts so yes
and sir okay yeah I mean they don't want
us like taking coke or like you know
stuff like that yeah that's what I would
worry about right it's like someone
getting on amphetamines yeah no they do
test for that like they test for like
you know prescription pills yeah yeah I
don't know about that you fucking get
really strong on that shit of probably
be you probably rip every house or Sade
probably break your body yeah you
probably not you wouldn't understand the
boundaries of you just go I had a buddy
of mine got in a fight he was on PCP and
a do bit off his finger and he didn't
even realize it now he has a toe that
they took they took his second toe and
curved it so he could still punch so if
you shake his hand his right hand we
shake see he's got the takes a new
meaning to shake a leg his pointer
fingers index finger is mastered its
curved permanently so he never he never
has like a flat hand it's his fucking
toe that's why yeah yeah boxing my old
boxing coach Wow shout out to Joe Lake
hey but um yeah so yeah so like they
don't want to take us like they don't
want us taking like that kind of stuff
right but um man it's pretty much that's
it that makes sense just cuz it's
fucking dangerous to it dudes it have
heart attacks like you push that thing
on me kinda and it is mean it is wild
the amount of medical testing we have to
go through before a contest is crazy
I would imagine your heart the Pat the
medical packet that we have to get
filled out by our primary cares for
world Strongest Man is like 48 pages
long but yeah it's
while dude so they bring you in for an
exam how long does that take
we have to get it done on our own so
they send after the invites are done and
after the the lineup is set for world
Strongest Man you get the email that
it's like here's the medical pack you
need done by this date and you pretty
much have to make an appoint with your
primary care and get it all done so what
does your doctor say when you come to
him with that fucking 48 page packet
well luckily I've gone to her a few
times with it so she knows to block off
some time yeah you know it's a lot but
it's it's smart because like we have to
get an EKG we have to do stress testing
we have to get a full blood panel done
they have to look at everything because
they don't want somebody dropping dead
on TV that makes them look pretty
fucking bad yeah they would have to make
sure that you're not already over
trained to write you're creating levels
yes so they look at everything I mean
it's a full blood panel they like I said
they do the EKGs they look at the heart
they do um and then it's not because a
full medical history as well just
everything from parents to pass diseases
to what runs in the family everything
and now you guys aren't insured by these
competitions are you know so if you tear
your fucking hand off it's all on you
yeah fuck man yep it's ballsy yeah it's
it's risky
yeah real ya know risky I mean that
seems kind of crazy that during the
competition itself you're not you're not
covered on us even those medical packets
like they say like all all all fees
associated with this are up to the
athletes expense and they don't pay that
well no you win you make decent money oh
it's not a lot right you know like to
win world Strongest Man you make like 50
grand really that's it yeah for the
strong the strongest man in the world
yeah that's me worth a million bucks I
think so that's the number I mean but
look at it so like world's needs it
around since the 70s I need to see six
zeros and I think you're gonna win the
strongest man on the fucking there
that's what I'm talking about
we need you in the sport yes we up the
money seems like someone should be able
to pony up a million bucks
I would love somebody I will say so like
you know we talk about world Strongest
Man in Giants live in that whole series
but then we also have the Arnold circuit
so there's like two big Pro circuits for
strongman to choose from
the Arnold circuit they've definitely
elevated the game right so the Arnold
strongman classic in Ohio is like kind
of seen as the most elite competition in
the world because only 10 guys qualify
for that contest world Strongest Man you
get 25 and then the prize money in in
Ohio is better then world Strongest Man
it it's almost double really yeah for
Arnold so at the Arnold so each of the
Arnold international shows its standard
prize money so the Arnold international
shows there was one here in Santa Monica
this weekend there's Australia South
America South Africa Europe Canada I
think that's it but we all know the
prize money going into each show because
it's the same at everyone so it's like
10 grand for first eight six four two
one so they payout top six but they also
pay all of our travel there so it's not
too bad no but then the big motivation
is to get to Ohio right where first
place is 85 grand and they pay out all
ten athletes but like third place at I
think it's second the second or third
place at Ohio makes just as much as
world Strongest Man so this is probably
why you have to compete 40 times a year
yes kind of imperative and I think it's
like to be honest like I didn't really
do that well this past weekend at Santa
Monica so I didn't make any money
oh really yeah oh no which is a bummer
like I wasn't like this weekend like the
contest like for me it was more like a
gauging I was trying to gauge where I
was at going into Columbus the events
were really similar so do you do that
like you have to be careful to not go
too crazy in one of these events or
something I definitely like held back
this weekend you know I think I could
have hit another gear if I needed to but
already having my qualification of the
big show I didn't like mentally I don't
think I'd have been able to like turn it
on like I need to go high oh and when is
Ohio but the first week of March so the
contest is the fifth and six I think or
the sixth and seventh so you have
nothing between right now which is
January 20th and month so how do you
ramp up like what is your schedule would
like to prepare for something like that
so the biggest thing so we look at the
events right so you know I mentioned we
have the max dead
so my goal is to head up 2,000 pounds
which would be which would make me the
first person under 300 pounds body
weight to do that in history whoa yeah
how close are you I pulled 970 in July
Jesus Christ so so we're close right
there we're close and you're only 28
yeah you're gonna get stronger exactly
so if you don't get to 300 pounds if you
don't gain too much weight you can nail
I don't want to like I was I was almost
300 I was like 298 at world's strongest
man in 2018 and I was a fat fuck
mmm it was gross like I look at my
husband I was like why did you want it
like lay next to me like I had neck
rolls on my neck rolls I'm like I was
gross this thing like some dudes like
bears they're like I'm big well he does
like I and I totally I'm a bear but like
I was an ugly fucking bear dude okay a
bear just going to not engage oh man
look at my head looked like a fucking
blueberry but like honestly like 285 is
like kind of my sweet spot because I'm
still getting stronger we're getting a
little bit leaner and getting better at
the sport so like I don't see a reason
to get any bigger right but I honestly
do think a thousand pounds is doable
right now well it seems like if you're
30 30 pounds away if you're doing that
much weight 906 I mean look 30 pounds to
a deadlift for a regular person that's
an extra thirty pounds that's a lot but
not when you're already doing 970
fucking pounds yeah and like to go back
to like the prep and like to ramp up to
this contest you know like before like
this weekend we had the deadlift was a
775 for reps in a minute and I pulled
six which was okay that's well like I
probably could have pulled seven or
eight if I needed to the winning number
was nine and everybody that ironically
everybody that finished ahead of me in
that event has already deadlift at over
a thousand pounds so that made me feel
pretty good but like leading up into
these next few weeks like I'm gonna
start working like my heaviest Idol
fated before this contest was eight
fifty for one I'm gonna start working up
into that low to mid-90s
probably three weeks before the contest
two and a half weeks before the contest
then do deadlifts at all before up
leading up to the contest if I do it'll
be light very nice a light relative you
know it's a relative term say sorry pal
yeah so you're just trying to let your
body recover and that's what a lot of
people think like people forget like
when we're training this hard like we're
beat to shit and like we're like I we
get stronger when we when we rest in
recover so I really don't exercise or
lift like the week of a contest like
I'll do my recovery workouts that I
talked about before we're like I'm just
kind of swimming hot tubs on of that
stuff but I won't lift any weights and
that's cuz like my body like my central
nervous system like everything just
needs a break right and you get stronger
over that period oh for sure it's
amazing does Joe feel like you maybe are
overtraining in in other ways cuz not
really that get that much stronger when
you take a week off almost seems like
you should do that more often no because
I think you need to get to that point
where you need to get beat down you know
like there are some strength coaches out
there that like you know we call it a
deal owed right so it's like where
you're ramping up ramping up going super
heavy then you back off for a little bit
right and that's what we call the D load
and there's some coaches that give that
every fourth week of their program
regardless and I don't agree with that
because I don't think anybody can work
that hard for three weeks to beat down
their body enough where they need it
every single fourth week normal people
don't train hard enough to need regular
D loads the the D loads the guys who
practice that way are they winning or
they not really know most of it like I
say that like most of that's like in
like I see a lot of the powerlifting
community where it's just like squat
bench deadlift but like in all honesty
like I don't feel people like I feel
like you have to earn your D load and
that's like what my coach does with me
like I went almost six months without a
deal owed leading into this contest and
that happened about a month and a half
ago and I knew I needed it because I was
tired every day regardless of how much
sleep I got I didn't want to go to the
gym every time I get to the gym I was
fucking miserable I just wanted to leave
I didn't want to look at anything I
don't want to talk to anybody and I
texted my coach I was like I need a
fucking break mm-hmm and he was like all
right cool I was waiting for
get to that point but it's good but it
you know it's like it's like I feel like
it's something you have to earn because
people like people think they work hard
but they don't really know what that
means until they're like actually pushed
to do something right and that's where I
got to that point and that's why like
these next five weeks are gonna be like
super crucial in my training to this
contest because I'm gonna have to I'm
gonna beat my body to shit over these
next five weeks you know and my husband
will probably get pissed off of me
because I'll be a prick 1 or 2 times at
least but it's like you know this is the
biggest competition of the world and I
know what I need to sacrifice to get to
that point and that's gonna mean long
training sessions really hard training
sessions and I'm you know just like I
said I'm just gonna beat my body down
just to reap those rewards at the end of
it yeah that's gotta leave you super
exhausted
it hurts and cranky and just like oh
yeah you know like I can't remember the
last time I woke out of bed feeling woke
up in the morning like feeling good oh
you must be in pain all over the place
right yeah it all hurts yeah but
whatever don't do cool shit you get our
MRIs and get shit checked out no I'm
sure I have herniated disks and stuff
like that like how could you not my
weren't my orthopedics actually one of
my closest friends
ironically yeah you know but like his
whole thing is like as long as you're
feeling good like why when I look into
it right because then you might freak
out you think about it right like if you
know it if you don't know it's not gonna
hurt right you know but like if you see
it then like you start thinking it's
like oh shit yeah I can't imagine your
disks are awful that's why it's so
impressive that's actually 6-3 when I
started the sport that's why it's a mate
amazing that guy's 53 and still able to
lift such insane amounts of weight it's
crazy
I mean it's so impressive and there's
actually still a guy there's a guy here
at LA who owns a gym called the training
hall in Thousand Oaks that's where
Martines trains his name is odd Hagen
name he's 72 and he still does some some
strength competitions - what yeah like
he's still deadlifts like over 500
pounds I've seen that guy online yeah
yeah oh it is awesome that's insane yeah
he's like the nicest dude ever but like
he has he has arguably the best grip in
the world really yes 70 - yeah it's
crazy Mike
yeah he's a freak now is that yeah
that's him yeah I have seen him yeah
that isn't crits incredible that has
that jacked yeah he's like 73 I think
yeah just turned 73 this weekend was his
birthday training hall I know where that
is yeah that's like 20 minutes away from
here man
yeah so that's that's where Martines the
current world Strongest Man trains and
then ODE is the owner of that place wow
that's amazing that you could still get
after that age he's so cool that that's
all of his grip toys so as those things
called the blob which they're literally
just like probably three inch wide like
weights where you send a light and
they're smooth on the side where you
have to pick them up in like a pinch a
pinch grip I'll just hold on yeah thick
dumbbells he has the crush grip stuff
now what kind of people come to his gym
this is regular folks or everybody
there's a competitive power lifter
strongman Olympic weightlifters and then
just your average person and that's kind
of the thing is like you know people
think like espresso like my gym back
home and lightening Fitness people think
like you have to be a competitor to go
train there like the gym owner like we
have everybody from like professional
strongmen we have a woman that squats
over 700 pounds I love her
Catrina she's one of those like they're
bigger than mine oh my god seven pounds
that's incredible she's like is she uh
maybe issue book she competes like 181 I
think and I think she's maybe like five
seven
she must be I'm a fucking tank yeah
she's great I love yeah that's so strong
but then we also have like 65 year old
grandmothers that are working out at the
same time in our gym oh that's cool well
you have to if you want to pay the bills
right yeah we have mopin you know the
gym the gym I go to like we have like
over 250 members right now so it's
pretty big but like you know we're also
in a 15,000 square foot facility that
has the best strength equipment you know
on the East Coast I would say oh really
oh yeah oh yeah like the gym the gym oh
we go to like in the strongman and like
strength world is like world renowned
have you ever been a west side barbell I
haven't
- I mean they're just to meet Lois
Simmons oh absolutely I mean I've met
him in the fencing
you know like I hear stories about him
where like he like tore his bicep yes
and he was in a sling for like three
days and got pissed off said fuck this
and just extended his arm really fast
popped the bicep off again then started
bench pressing oh my cuz he just
couldn't wait for it to heal like just
he told me that he had a shoulder
reconstructed you got shoulder
construction and then when he his first
day back they made a max out bench yep
I'm like why I mean there's guys like
Greg Panora who was a guy that was in
the west side versus the world
documentary where like he had like the
he had a he ruptured his patellar tendon
got the surgery done I think it was the
next day
was on the bench bench pressing with his
leg like fully extended in an
immobilizer like he was busting the
staples he was like dripping blood
through the bandages but you know they
had to train man Jesus Christ now going
back to what I said luckily I have my
background in sports medicine so I don't
do shit like that good for you yeah
because talking to Louie I was like why
why I gotta fucking do it so you gotta
do there's Larry
crazy-fast looks like a mutant and he
still does this shit look at crazy it
was that tape or tattoos that's attached
to a - yes name all over him right and
he's get the Captain America armband
time yeah that look at the build on him
it's just crazy and he's been doing this
shit since the 60s yeah have you seen
that documentary no I have it's all hard
it's awesome against the world you talk
about just like intense badass
motherfuckers that like all they care
about is that in the record board in
their gym in competing yeah well we went
in there to interview Louie it was a
fucking trip it was a trip and then we
went and checked out his jam he gave us
a tour of the gym and that's sick we had
a good - it was one of the rare ones
that Jamie and I did that video which
one that we shot like walking around the
gym oh yeah yeah I never did anything
with it ah we should put it on YouTube
because we put out well if you ever find
yourself in Connecticut Joe I know how
much you loved this time I fucking like
kinetic
when I see it over and a bring you into
our gym I would definitely do that there
it's wild what's it called again
lightning fitness light Connecticut one
more time it's in South Windsor
Connecticut so it's just outside of
Hartford okay and we drive a little bit
45 minutes each way yeah yeah but
there's like we there's essentially like
two sides of the gym there's like the
strongman side in the powerlifting side
you know like the strongman side like
has every piece of strongman equipment
you can think of so we have Atlas stones
from 60 pounds to 530 pounds
we have logs we have monster dumbbells
we have the farmers walk there's turf
there's tires from 250 to a thousand
pounds then the powerlifting side is
where we have like the mono lifts all
the squat racks and then all the
isolation like bodybuilding machines as
well so it's like yeah it's like a
15,000 square foot gym and you live in
Springfield living just outside
Springfield Western - yeah town called
Wilbraham so I know where that is yeah I
just do gigs out in western mouths - so
yeah when I lived in Boston nice to
drive out there yeah like where
Pittsfield oh okay yeah so I am yeah I
used to the so I I just left working
full-time I worked in the boarding
school world for a long time that's why
I'm like in the western mass area and we
lived in East Hampton I was super super
awesome little town yeah so that's why
your last thing Massachusetts is a trip
it's a cool spot it's not bad man it's
great you know like I called his fuck
though right now it's sucks my husband
flew home this morning and we got a
snowstorm yesterday so he's flying yeah
I mean I'm I'm flying home tonight and
you know I'm going back to like six
inches of snow so that's great it builds
character
yeah it's great we also have the like
it's it's really cool cuz like we get
four seasons you know like we there was
a stretch this summer was like 110 for
three days in a row really it was super
hot that's just global warming fucker
whinnies yeah yeah I used to get that
that you know the appreciation for
summer for sure
yeah and even in the summer it's like
it's pretty it's like between out say
like we have an average between like 85
and 90 every day in the summer so it's
pretty warm
where's the strongman hotbed like what
if there was a place where you like if
you want to be an actor you moved to LA
right if you want to be a strongman is
there a place where you go to I really
don't think there is it's because like I
would say in the u.s. there's only like
four or five guys that are doing it
really really well at a really high
level
you know it's let's me Oberst Jerry
Prichard Brian Shaw
Martines and then there's Nick best in
Vegas as well so probably like six of us
and we're all over the place you know
there's me I'm the only one in the East
Coast and then there's Brian and
Colorado Martines is out here
Jerry's in Phoenix Oberst is I think is
in Iowa now I think and then Nick best
in Vegas so we're kind of like spread
out all over the place and that's a cool
thing like strong man like will do um
like I get hired to do like seminars all
over the US and all over the world
we're like gyms will pay me to come into
their gym for a weekend like teach
people you know from my experience and
like different gym lifts and stuff like
that
so that's pretty much it there's really
no like one place you know like power
lifting has Westside right but there
really isn't that that culture around
strongman would there be any benefit to
training with some other top-level guy
like you know like for fighters they
want to go and train in the gym with his
other top-level fighters cuz they push
each other and inspire each other and
iron sharpens iron oh yeah and at the
top level we try to do that as much as
possible you know I just don't think
none of us are like willing to move our
families and our life's around just for
that because we realize what the sport
is you know I mean fighters it'd be
worth it when you're making a million
bucks a fight right for us it's not that
level but you know Martines he flew out
Massachusetts this past summer to train
with me even though he had just one
world Strongest Man there's events that
I'm better than him at and that's why he
flew out to me because he had a contest
coming up where those events were in it
so he wanted what events you really
shine in log presses my bread and butter
we talked about then there's the oak
walk which is you know the crossbar with
stance picking up on your back and walk
with it you know that's one event that
I'm really well known for as well and
this one that Martines tends to struggle
at so why are you so good at that what's
the deal
people call me like Fred Flintstone of
strongman
I move my feet really really quick I
don't know like I just got I for some
reason I just like ya feelin super heavy
weight on my back and movin quick with
you you know world Strongest Man we had
a thirteen hundred and fifty pounds on
that thing it was a bitch now is
actually end of a medley so we had a
farmers walk that was three hundred and
thirty pounds per hand and then we had
to pick up a 1,000 pound yoke and then
the thirteen hundred and fifty God yeah
and I was the only one in my group that
actually finished that event which was
pretty wild
god damn you at the end of something
like that all your tissues must be so
torn apart like yeah it was like I mean
you talk about like cranial pressure
like my I felt like my eyes were purple
it was wild yeah I would imagine right
that kind of cream have you ever do you
know what happens when you fly in a jet
it's going like the g-forces and stuff
yeah I know you have they call it
hooking where you like hold on to the
handle you gotta go I guess but then
your forcing that luck
pretty much what we're doing because
with strongman like when you have 1,300
pounds on your back like you're not
gonna breathe that well like you can't
really expand your lungs in your ribs to
breathe prosper almost holding your
breath so and that's with most of our
stuff like I hold my breath whenever I
do moving events and I just try to
exhale and inhale as shortened as small
as possible just to get enough so I
don't pass out pretty much does anybody
pass out all the time what am i one of
my good friends at world Strongest Man
in the Philippines on 2018 we were
carrying like a 330 pound sandbag and
like the way he carried it was just like
resting round in his diaphragm and he
didn't pick it up high enough to go onto
the platform so he just ran into the
platform fell backwards and was just out
cold and Magnus ver Magnusson is
standing right next to him another
awesome man great name didn't twitch
didn't move a muscle he just goes so
it's just like any passing out kind of
like a normal part of what we do I can
only imagine it does
so it doesn't sound good when I'm saying
it out loud but well it makes sense
though I mean the fucking insertion does
anybody have heart attacks not typically
it's it has happened the only person
that comes to mind is a guy I can't
remember what year his name was Jesse
maroon day and he did have a heart
attack in the gym when he was training
and that's how he passed away and he was
only I believe he's only 28 or 29 years
old it happens in jiu-jitsu yeah guys
get hard tax training and then you know
I mean another thing is like sleep apnea
because the guys are so big so that
causes a lot of stress on the heart do
you use a CPAP machine or anything I
don't I don't need one you know I'm
pretty fortunate that I don't have that
issue when I sleep you know but a
previous coach mind Mike Jenkins he
passed away in 2013 because of sleep
apnea and you know just the strain on
his heart so yeah that's not good it's
basically not sleeping yeah and you're
suffocating yourself yeah it's crazy so
a lot of the guys that this level do but
I mean that but that's mainly like
because of their size dude and I have it
really yeah yeah yeah it's might have
fat tongue but that's all the years of
fighting like with that neck you
musculature and all that development
there yeah for some reason like I've
kind of you know got lucky Joseph all
all players have it for sure how our
lifter so I think when you want once you
get around the 300 pound body weight
like do you snore not terribly hmm on
planes I do but that's because my bad
mouth just opens up yeah exactly yeah so
a good place to sleep now or just sit in
general when you're near 300 pounds it's
what's so fascinating to me when you
think about people that explore the
boundaries of what a human body's
capable of and strongman is like what
there's like guys who do like David
Goggins that do like the ultra marathons
but strongman is like that's another
form of this extreme pushing of the
boundaries of what what your body is
capable and when you look at the
progression of the sport it just has
slowed-down like if anything it's gotten
even like the weights keep getting
heavier every year
everybody keeps getting faster and like
all those like when the fuck is this
gonna stop you know like we show up to a
contest now like alright there was
literally a contest in 2018 where the
deadlift was 880 pounds for reps wait
what's the fuck dude
and there was a motherfucker that pulled
over 5 is so much crazy and so it's like
all of us are like where does it stop
like does it stop you know like the the
log press world record is 502 pounds
overhead right now you know it's just
like these crazy outlandish numbers but
like the people like we keep doing them
so I guess we're doing it to ourselves
to a point I guess so but do you like
what is pushing it is it just that you
is it a preconceived idea of what's
possible and now that the bar has been
moved and now you realize that or is it
just that people are more scientific
about their training now I think that's
what it is I think it's um and it's also
like when you the the evolution of
equipment over the years you know like
with rogue being more our main equipment
sponsor now they make Australian
equipment so like regular people have
strong and equipment in their gyms you
know like they're like PT clinics that
have farmers handles in them for people
to work on core musculature and posture
when they're walking so I think just
like the general availability of
strongman equipment is made it easier
for people to train it more regularly
and get better at the events because you
we have to practice you know like being
strong is great but you have to be able
to manipulate the movement and
manipulate the implement to work and
that's where just like the training and
the practice portion of it comes in so I
think that's why we've seen you know a
lot of these weights being pushed so
much further because everybody pretty
much has regular access to these
strongman implements now mmm it just
it's interesting to me that you're
saying that the weights are getting
heavier and people are getting faster
it's like then I'm thinking like how
long have people been doing this when
was the first strongman competition I
mean strongman dates back to like the
1700s really well yeah kind of shit like
barrel throw
yeah really um I mean when Rob was on
you know he was talking about the show
strongest man in history that was just
on History Channel and they they went
back into the history books to look at
old you know quote-unquote strong men
doing these strengths these feats of
strength all throughout you know I think
one of the most notable names is Louis
Cyr a guy from Canada who was about my
size actually and is revered to be one
of the strongest men in history and so
when he was doing like these dumbbell
lifts and these back two lifts and these
hip and thigh lifts and stuff like that
so strongly it's been around for a long
time but World's Strongest Man didn't
become a thing until the 70s mmm that's
when world Strongest Man I think 77 was
the first year of world Strongest Man
and that's when it kind of became a
sport you know and not just a kind of a
hobby
I guess so how do they determine what
stuff you're gonna do for the world
Strongest Man did they I mean did they
have a panel of experts that sit down
and devise each individual event yeah I
mean it's it's come a long way from what
it was in the 70s I mean they used to do
like medleys with like potato sack races
back at world Strongest Man a long time
ago now it's a little more standardized
where they do have like a committee
where it's you know people from the
strongman circuit and judges and stuff
like that but they also bring TV execs
because they want stuff that's gonna
look cool you know be and I think that's
a great thing because you don't want
it's like stuff that is cool to me isn't
gonna look cool to somebody that doesn't
know anything about the sport sometimes
so when they choose the events like
pulling two monster trucks like okay one
it's you have to be strong as fuck to be
able to do it but it also looks really
cool on TV so they try to find that
marriage of both of those things to make
it the most pleasing to the average
participant but also impressive exactly
you know like the deadlift event they
don't have us yeah so this is that's
Marquette that's Marc Felix yeah so this
is one of the world records that he did
how old is he what he's doing this this
was 53 right so this was actually just
this past July this was that when
Wembley Stadium oh my god or well the
arena in London the Hercules hold what a
great name so each of those pillars
weighs 400 pounds and he's just chillin
and you just have to hold it as long as
you can the size of his fucking
shoulders yeah that is preposterous it's
dumb that dude has preposterous muscles
that's ok how long does he hold this
fucker fine he goes over one minute yeah
I mean it's crazy no this is a world
record reading what kind of after this
is what 122 drops it yeah what kind of
breathing you doing here like does it
help to breathe in deep and heavy or so
chest during an event like this it looks
that is crazy that's exactly dude black
don't crack they're not lying guys it's
amazing so with with an event like that
it's more just real and I try to relax
and getting into like a calm mental
state because you don't want to be super
revved up because you're not moving
you're just focusing on your grip and
that's the biggest thing for an event
like that but then there's also events
we're like okay when you're maxing your
deadlift you do have to hold your breath
right so it's different for everything
you do it goes up to his wrist that's
that's incredible that's amazing though
that he can hold those fucking things
for that long was I got minute I wasn't
a minute 23 seconds and for reference
like I I was at that contest and did it
for like 42 seconds oh that's crazy now
how do you prepare for someone dead do
you like you don't hold those things
like you just work on your grip but no
usually I'm honestly self set up like a
pulley system in the gym so use just
like regular handles that use them like
a cable machine set up a pulley on like
a squat rack or like one of the rogue
rigs have loading pins coming down stack
weights on that and then just holding
yeah or even just doing something as
simple like pull up holds like dead
hangs from a barbell yeah right from a
pull-up bar how long can you dead hang
for I've done over a minute that's
impressed okay guys that heavy yeah yeah
so honestly usually would go my
shoulders usually get tired before
anything else
yeah just from like holding it and so
you must have like crazy tears all over
the place and shit like if you ever got
your your labrum checked or anything
like that
good a must now I'm looking at you
pressing that 250 pound thing over your
fucking head like that ain't that's not
normal shoulder pressure no it's not
polite if you do it safely incorrectly
but you know it's also taken 10 years to
get to that point right right you know
like it's funny you know like I have the
American log press record but like
overhead was my weakest lift when I
started the sport I sucked you just
focused on it so much yeah and like I
said before like I became a student of
the sport so I was looking at what was
working out for other guys what wasn't
working and trying to find that balance
of what I could make work for me so
luckily yeah like I said I've been
pretty injury free and healthy the
entire time that's pretty amazing well
listen man I appreciate you coming in
here thank you so much hope this gives
you some more attention and let people
know how fucking impressive it is I
appreciate it I really love your your
Instagram man your you're an
inspirational guy you're very positive
it's very it's a happy fun page - it's
very appreciate I try and that's uh you
know the one of everything I post and
everything and I just like I said I try
to spread the message of love positivity
and just you know inspiration with
everything that I do so well no pun
intended I'm pulling for you to get that
hundred thousand pounds and I appreciate
you being here man create thank you very
much great to meet you bye everybody
[Music]
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]